For our focus management exercise,
we are going to add a more accessible
modal layer, and
we'll see how the mechanics of that work.
We've learned about tab index and
how to trap focus
into new layers, so
let's apply it in an example.
We're gonna use pre-built components for
this, so
it should be a little less in
the weeds than our ARIA example.
But let's go into this and
see what we've got here.
So for
our image gallery that's in progress,
when I click this,
I have a layer that pops up.
It's not totally done in that
it does have a close button.
I can open and close it, but
I can still get behind that content.
So if that layer is open, I mean,
the display looks funky for
one, but it should really
be blocking me from getting
anywhere behind that layer when it's open.
So totally not working.
Let's make something
that does work better.
And we're gonna reach for
components that are already built in,
because it's a lot easier sometimes.
But we'll look at what are the kind of
building box of what they're doing that
make it actually accessible and
make it work.
So in our ProductimageGallery,
let's add some components here.
So let's see how it's working right now.
There is a full screen image
state that we're setting on and
off when you click on that image.
So the image is, first of all,
it's a div with an onClick.
Let's make that a button.
Let's give it an aria-label
Open image in full-screen,
because the alt attribute would
supply text to that button, but
it would just be the alt
attribute from the image and
that wouldn't really say what
this action is gonna do.
So clicking on this button in this
iteration will open it in a full
screen layer.
So this layer down here,
as we've just a regular old div,
it's got some positioning on it.
It has a close button that is another
div with a click event on it.
I think we could just cut our losses and
try a built pre-built component.
And we have some pre-built
components in here using Chakra UI.
And for React,
I think they have view, versions, and
maybe some other options as well.
It's pretty solid, so I would
definitely recommend checking it out if
you're in this part of web development.
So let's pull in, I'm gonna
open up our modal, Chakra UI, and
let's go over to the Components.
And I think it's,
we need to go to React, Components,
that's where they live, and then Modal.
So interestingly, there's a set of
components under the title overlay.
And so that's this kind of general
concept for something like a layer.
Not to be confused with
an accessibility overlay,
which we're not even really discussing
discussing today, but overlays, modals.
So for this example,
we will grab these components.
We already have Chakra UI React
in our project, so
it's pretty easy to grab these.
They're really great about documenting
how they're adding accessibility.
So anytime you go to reach for
a pre-built component,
read up on what they have to offer
on this kinda thing and test a demo.
Before you go through
the work of importing it and
seeing if it'll work,
go test a demo site first.
And so some of the things we wanna look
for, they are very helpfully writing out
here, including when the modal opens, they
trap focus in it, hey, we know that one.
When the modal opens, focus is
automatically set to the first enabled
element, or you can tell it what
element to focus on, that is awesome.
So it's something they're
calling initialFocusRef.
So that is a way for us to reference
an element in React to say,
we wanna focus there
when it opens initially.
And then they have a similar
one called finalFocusRef so
we can choose where to restore focus.
But you don't have to,
they automatically do it for you.
That's amazing.
You can click on it to close it,
you ou can use the Esc key,
scrolling is blocked behind the modal.
It's rendered in a portal attached
to the end of the body, so
it will break it out so
that it's easier to put a NERT on it.
That was that topic we
were just talking about.
So they're really thinking about
all the right things here.
So if you can use pre-built components,
sometimes it is a good choice.
And then they have some
ARIA stuff in here.
So they use the aria-modal,
I guess that's a state.
And then they have some labeling
already wired up for you,
that's It's pretty magical.
So let's go add that.
We have an image component,
so I'm going to add to it.
And for our modal, We're gonna go
pull in some of these components.
So I've got the imports,
let's grab some of content as well.
They have multiple overlays here.
I wanna get the basic usage.
So we already have a button to open it.
We will grab this modal, we even
have the state to open and close it.
We just want the markup
from this component.
So down here in JSX, I will leave our
fullscreenImage state to render this.
And instead of Modal isOpen,
I will say, setFullscreenImage.
Or let's see, what do I wanna call it?
Yes, so, What did I add here before?
Actually, onClose I will say,
What did I have before?
So we had closedFullscreen, so I have
a fullscreenImage and closeFullscreen,
Back here, closeFullscreen.
So since I'm not passing any arguments, I
can just reference this callback function.
For this one,
I'm gonna take fullscreenImage and
it will be a string, I believe.
And so I can turn it into
a truthy-falsy variable just by putting
a double exclamation point in front of it.
So that will hinge off of that state
that I'm already managing and we
can go up here to see that fullscreenImage
is being managed with useState.
Okay, so
we are not going to use a ModalFooter.
The ModalBody will be our image.
So I'm gonna grab the, The image,
I think it's just scaled
down in the smaller size.
So if I open it up with the same asset,
it'll just have the display
to show it bigger.
But I think if you had
different size image assets,
you'd show a bigger one in
the full screen gallery, right?
So our Modal Title, this one,
the design does not have a title showing.
Titles are pretty important for modals.
So I think in this case,
I might just include one and
then I would talk with my team,
how are we gonna handle this?
The design doesn't have a title on it,
but we have to include one.
I could investigate adding a screen
reader only class to this or
something to keep it there,
but not show it visually.
But for now, I'm going to put the alt
attribute or maybe the product name.
Any one of those.
Okay, so we have a modal,
let's see what it looks like.
Hey, there it is.
Our style looks a little weird,
but it's already there.
It opened up,
it's in the full context of the Window.
And so I can probably control that
with some relative positioning,
but that was the easiest modal
implementation I've ever done.
[LAUGH] And we can take advantage
of some of these libraries now.
It didn't use to be that you could
grab a modal off the shelf and
have any hope that it would be accessible,
but this is awesome.
So love you, Chakra, [LAUGH] thank you.
So for this,
let's see if we can control that.
I'll say div className="relative",
that is a Tailwind class that will
add CSS relative positioning.
So hopefully, try and
contain some of this.
We might just be kind of not impacting it
in the right way, cuz it's in our slide
references when the full page version
is really what we're gonna care about.
There is a prop for this also to
make the modal go full screen.
I think it might be view="full".
This is another area where I'm
not gonna go down the Typescript
rabbit hole, but
sometimes it can be helpful.
I can't quite recall what the prop is, but
you do have a way to
full screen this really.
So let's see.
I'm actually going to
open up our example page.
Wow, that was pretty cool how
easy that was to open and close.
This title is not the right color nor is
the button, but I think we can fix that.
I mean, the button would be pretty.
I think I could do colorScheme.
I think that's the Chakra
way of calling things.
I think I might be able to give it
a black color scheme, which I remember.
We'll play with it.
And I can always go back to
the Chakra Docs and sort that out.
So for this one, let's see what
it looks like in our full page.
So here's an example.
So I do have the correct
color of button here.
I didn't end up including
the title on this one, but
we could figure that part out, too.
So that is a modal that if I tab around,
that close button is
the only focusable thing.
But we know there's other elements on this
page that were focusable before this.
So this modal is doing some
heavy lifting for us and
that was the easiest copy of
code I think I've ever done.
So try using it, because this
is really what we wanna get to,
is to be able to send focus to
the modal layer when it opens.
I can hit Esc and go back,
my focus was back where we started,
even though we couldn't quite see it.
So yeah,
that's some focus management right there.